[DOC-REVIEW for PR 1708] nuctl CLI reference rewrite & new Docker getting-started guide; minor GS guides edits (#1727)
nuclio/nuclio: docs/reference/nuctl/nuctl.md

# The Nuclio CLI (nuctl)

#### In this document

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Download and Installation](#download-n-install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [The running platform](#running-platform)
  - [Docker](#docker)
  - [Kubernetes](#kubernetes)

> <a id="overview"></a>

Reviewer: is it really required? `<a></a>` isn't required when navigating within markdown, it is being added automatically.

Author: No it's not required, it's just good practice to set hardcoded anchors — it makes it simpler to link rather than deriving the auto-generated anchors, and more importantly, it frees us from the need to edit links to the headings if the title changes. That said, granted it's not really important for "Overview", I just like to use them everywhere for consistency and good measure and it doesn't hurt anyone :-).

## Overview

`nuctl` is Nuclio's command-line interface (CLI), which provides command-line access to Nuclio features.

<a id="download-n-install"></a>
## Download and Installation

To install `nuctl`, simply visit the Nuclio [releases page](https://github.com/nuclio/nuclio/releases) and download the appropriate CLI binary for your environment (for example, **nuctl-&lt;version&gt;-darwin-amd64** for a machine running macOS).

You can use the following command to download the latest `nuctl` release:
```sh
curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/nuclio/nuclio/releases/latest \
			| grep -i "browser_download_url.*nuctl.*$(uname)" \
			| cut -d : -f 2,3 \
			| tr -d \" \
			| wget -O nuctl -qi - && chmod +x nuctl
```

<a id="usage"></a>
## Usage

After you download `nuctl`, use the `--help` option to see full usage instructions:
```sh
nuctl --help
```

<a id="running-platform"></a>
## The running platform

`nuctl` automatically identifies the platform from which it's being run.
You can also use the `--platform` CLI flag to ensure that you're running against a specific platform, as explained in this reference:

- [Docker](#docker)
- [Kubernetes](#kubernetes)

<a id="docker"></a>

> ### Docker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Docker (local)
```
Since it's called "local" in the cli arg, I believe it should be made clear it's a synonym to docker in this context

Author: @omesser I would prefer "Docker (local registry)" or "Local Docker registry" and I think that based on your comment we should also replace "Docker" instances in the content  with "a local Docker registry". Please confirm.

Reviewer 2: @Sharon-iguazio - We're talking about docker runtime vs k8s runtime - this has nothing to do with the docker-registry nuclio will work against. The word registry should not appear here

Author: @omesser I changed "Docker" to "Local Docker" — commit 40b4611.

To ensure that you're running `nuctl` on Docker, add `--platform local` to the CLI command.

For an example of function deployment using `nuctl` against Docker, see the Nuclio [Docker getting-started guide](/docs/setup/docker/getting-started-docker.md).

<a id="kubernetes"></a>
### Kubernetes

> To ensure that you're running `nuctl` on Kubernetes, add `--platform kube` to the CLI command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To force `nuctl` to work against a  Kubernetes `nuclio` instance, add `--platform kube` to the CLI command.
```
wrt "ensuring" here and above.

It sounds a bit off to me. it should be "force" IMO.
The reality is, that nuctl on the same machine can work both against a local docker nuclio installation, and a remote k8s installation alternatively. In this case the user will *have* to give one of the flags in some scenario because nuctl can't guess against which nuclio/platform it's supposed to work, and on the same machine will always work against either local / or k8s depending on it's auto detection, it may be necessary for the user to alternate between them if he/she so wishes
This is why I think "ensuring" is a bit misleading here - it's not just "making sure" - sometimes we have to TELL nuctl who to work against or it won't know / guess wrong.
The logic to auto detect a platform is this:
- if kubeconfig available at the default dir, or an alternative path to kubeconfig is passed in config or via env var - it's k8s, try to work against the k8s system using this kubeconfig, else - default to local (docker)

So, you see, the logic of auto detection might cause nuclio to always work against k8s, and ignore a local nuclio installation, which might be what the user wants

Author: @omesser this is a technical discussion that I'm not equipped to weight in. The "ensure" terminology was in the original version of the file (which I thought you had reviewed, as you approved PR #1708 ...). I don't mind replacing the two "To ensure that you're running `nucltl` on ..." (for Docker and k8s) with "To force `nuctl` to work with a ..." (I don't really like the "work against" terminology, especially as "work against" in English means to oppose ...). Also, based on Your previous comment regarding a local Dcoker, I would change the "Docker" references to "a local Docker registry". => @omesser @liranbg please approve before I make the changes.

Reviewer 2: - "Docker ->  a local Docker registry" - That's a ❌  runtime != registry
- against vs on - when on docker/local runtime, nuctl must run on the same machine. With k8s, running "against" this cluster is usually (but not exclusively) done from outside of the cluster. Hence the more generic terminology. it is a tool communicating with a k8s cluster or a host running docker (locally).
- Unless got a semantically equivalent suggestion to denote a client-server like relationship, please change to:
```
To force `nuctl` to work against a  Kubernetes `nuclio` instance, add `--platform kube` to the CLI command.
```

Here, and in the local section:
```
To force `nuctl` to work locally, using docker daemon, add `--platform local` to the CLI command.
```

Author: @omesser @liranbg I rephrased a bit differently (commit 01abc11); please approve:
- local —
    ```markdown
    To force `nuctl` to run locally, using a Docker daemon, add `--platform local` to the CLI command.
    ```
- k8s —
    ```markdown
    To force `nuctl` to run against a Kubernetes instance of Nuclio, add `--platform kube` to the CLI command.
    ```

Reviewer 2: Great, thanks!
